You will learn how the Igor
Ansov matrix works, which is
the most well-known tool
or model in terms of growth
strategies.
Why is it so well known
and used?
Well, because it's very practical,
it's very easy to understand
and allows us to classify any
type of alternative or growth
action within this matrix.
Let's see what Ansov says.
Ansov says you can grow in two
dimensions.
You can grow with the products
you already have or you can
grow with new products.
And the other dimension is that you
can grow within the current market
or within the current customer
segment or by heading to new
markets, to new segments.
Moreover, and this is very obvious
and very common sense, the more
you get away in the bottom-left corner
matrix, the more you get away from
your market or product, the
more risk there is.
The four growth strategies
have a different risk that
we will see.
And they are the following.
The main strategy
of growth is market penetration.
It's growing with your current product
within your current market,
targeting you to your current customer
segments.
Or you can within your current
market to do a product development
and sell them new products
to your current segment.
You can grow into the other dimension.
Now what we do is to go to other
markets or other segments,
but with our current
product.
And finally, diversification,
which is new markets and
new products, is the strategy
that has the greatest risk.
Let us look at each of them
in a little more detail.
Penetration into the market, as we
have said, we are directed to
our current market with the products
we already have.
It is the logical strategy of
growth, it is the initial strategy
always, it is the obvious.
As long as you can grow, grow where
there is no risk.
Examples, there are thousands of examples.
Opening a store, investing in
advertising, investing in
a sales force, developing the
distribution channel, all
that allows you to grow with
your product in your current
market, penetration in the
market.
What is what happens?
If you remember the life cycle, what
happens is that it is not always possible
to continue growing in the current
market.
There is a time when it is impossible.
When is this given?
No, not in the introductory phase.
There is still a lot of market
to grow, not even in the growth phase.
We can still grow, we can invest and
we can grow, we can invest and at this
time things are complicated.
It's no longer so easy to grow, unless
you have a huge competitive advantage,
it's not usual.
You have to fight for every point
of the market share, you have
to fight with your competitors.
In this scenario, it seems reasonable
to look for growth alternatives
that have more risk.
And what are they?
Either we develop new products
or what we do is go to other
markets, look for other
customer segments in which
we can grow.
Development of new products.
I will give you an example.
Remember, it's selling new products
to your existing customers.
What is BMW doing with
the development of its
electric car range?
Exactly that.
He has developed a new technology,
a little different cars
and is selling it to his current
customer segment.
The car market is a very
mature market where it
is very difficult for
BMW to win a lot of money
by taking away its
direct competitors
such as Mercedes
or Audi.
So what it does is to do a product
development, to grow the
business in this way.
Take Ikea for example.
Ikea offers a range of value-
added services such
as transportation,
car rental, etc.
That is a clear product development.
To whom is it sold?
To your current customers, to the
customers who will enter the store and
offer more products.
Let us now look at the development of markets.
Market development is, with what
we already have, targeting
new customer segments.
These customer segments may be in
other locations in the world.
That is, it can be the classic international
expansion very logical when your
market no longer grows.
What is what you do?
The world is big, you go to other
places.
But I also want you to stay with
that there is not only international
expansion.
You can also search for new
customer segments using new
distribution channels.
If you implement an e-commerce and
start selling online, you will be
able to target a slightly different
customer segment, the one
you were selling.
In the case of a company like Inditex.
Or think of an outlet, in the
fashion retail sector.
If a company like Mango sells
to a new market, it is targeting
a new customer segment with
its current product.
If you think so, the clothes that
are inside, the product is exactly
the same as you have in your traditional stores.
What happens is that by selling
it in outlet format you can target
a segment of customers with the
higher price sensitivity.
And finally, there is diversification.
Diversification is that we are
heading to new markets with new
products and is the strategy
that has the most risk.
We will not go into detail now
because we will make a specific
class for the diversification strategy.
Finally, we will analyze the
alternatives or growth strategy
of McDonald's by linking
it to the growth matrix
of Igor Ansov.
What can McDonald's do to grow?
You can open more restaurants
in the markets you are in.
But that is limited.
I still imagine it has some growth
margin, but in many markets, in
many mature markets where
McDonald's has been in
place for many years, it
cannot open, it cannot double
or triple the number
of restaurants.
They need to find alternatives
to growth.
We will think about product development.
Remember to sell new products
to existing customers.
Well, McDonald's launched an
initiative, a very successful
product development strategy
that was to start
selling breakfasts.
Think of it, McDonald's has the
restaurants, has the customers, has
the space, has the employees
and what he did was sell
meals and dinners.
Well, you created a new product that
is breakfast that allows you
to increase the profitability
of all your investments,
your assets, your employees,
etc.
It is product development.
Another product development,
with less development, with less
degree of difference from their
traditional product, is to
start offering that made years
ago healthier products,
healthier dishes.
I sold fries, hamburgers,
dogs, etc.
And there was a portion of her clients
who demanded, especially family
parents who went with children,
demanded healthier, less-
calorie food.
Well, McDonald's made a product
development and incorporated
into salads.
What other options does McDonald's have?
The development of the
market and growth worldwide.
McDonald's is present in almost everyone,
but there are still areas that
we have in blue where it does
not have a presence.
Growing in these areas, expanding
their international geographical
coverage would be a clear strategy
for developing international
markets, international
expansion.
And finally, the diversification.
McDonald's hasn't diversified
much, but we can see an initiative
that can be considered diversification,
which is the Mccafes.
It is a different product, it is not
a hamburger, it is a coffee shop and
is aimed at a probably different
customer segment, because they
demand a different product.
It is a diversification strategy.
Here is the matrix again.
From now on, when you think about
a growth strategy, always
think about these terms.
Always think that there are
four alternatives to growth and
that every strategy can
be classified within the Ansov matrix.